---
keywords:
    - RTC
    - definitions
    - HAL
    - STM32
    - STMicroelectronics
tags:
    - HAL
    - Drivers
draft: true
---

# RTC definitions {#definition}

Term   | Definition
------ | ----------
Alarm |  A value programmed to match the current date/weekday/hour/minutes/seconds/subseconds.
BCD mode | Mode of the calendar with date and time written in hexadecimal each digit is represented by a fixed number of bits.
Binary mode | Mode of the calendar where SSR registers becomes a binary down-counter. BCD registers are not functional.
Calibration output | Clock provided by RTC pin for calibration.
Date | A value representing the current Year, Month, Day, Weekday expressed in binary or BCD format.
Digital calibration circuit | A circuit to compensate for clock innacuracy.
Internal timestamp | Timestamp generated by the switch to the battery supply.
Mixed mode | Mode of the calendar where SSR registers becomes a binary down-counter and BCD registers are functional.
PREDIV_Async | Programmable asynchronous prescaler.
PREDIV_Sync | Programmable synchronous prescaler.
Reference Clock Detection | A more precise second source clock can used to enhance the calendar precision.
Shadow register | egisters mirroring the time and date registers to ensure consistency between the 3 values when reading them.
Tamper | An anti-tamper detection circuitry from internal or external source.
Time | A value representing the Hour, Minutes, Seconds expressed in decimal or BCD format.
Timestamp | Action to save current date time when a defined event occurs.
Timestamp overflow |  When a timestamp event occurs and the timestamp flag is not cleared.
Wake-Up Timer | A programmable auto-reload counter.
